.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

(The lines in parentheses (like this one) are instructions for filling out this template. These lines can be deleted.)
(The lines in double curly brackets ({{}}) should be replaced as it describes.)
(You can open a PR to add to or improve this template, if you find it lacking!)

(Choose one heading, or add your own.)
**Content (Artwork / Missions / Jobs)**
**Balance**
**Feature**
**Bug fix**
**Typo fix**
**CI/CD/Testing**
**Refactor**
**Documentation**

This PR addresses the bug/feature described in issue #{{insert number}}

## Summary
{{Describe and explain your changes. Include links to related issues.}}

## Screenshots
{{Include before and after screenshots demonstrating your changes, if applicable.}}

## Usage examples
{{If your changes affect how game data can be defined, provide examples demonstrating the changes here.}}

## Testing Done
{{Describe how you tested these changes. Ensure that new issues aren't introduced.}}
{{If this is a new feature, have you added any automated tests using the unit or integration testing framework?}}

## Save File
This save file can be used to test these changes:
{{Attach a save file that allows people to easily test your added mission content or see your new in-game art.}}

## Artwork Checklist
(If any artwork was added or changed by this PR, the following must be provided.)
 - [ ] I updated the copyright attributions, or decline to claim copyright of any assets produced or modified
 - [ ] I created a PR to the [endless-sky-assets repo](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky-assets) with the necessary image, blend, and texture assets: {{insert PR link}}
 - [ ] I created a PR to the [endless-sky-high-dpi repo](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky-high-dpi) with the `@2x` versions of these art assets: {{insert PR link}}

## Wiki Update
(If this PR adds a new feature or modifies a feature that should be documented in the [GitHub wiki](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki), open a PR to the [wiki repository](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky-wiki) and provide a link.)

## Performance Impact
{{If this PR changed code, describe any performance impact (positive or negative). "N/A" if no performance-critical code is changed.}}

Commit message:

feat(github): Remove PRs to Endless Sky Assets and High DPI repos from the PR template (#165)
Co-authored-by: Zitchas <32169904+Zitchas@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

(The lines in parentheses (like this one) are instructions for filling out this template. These lines can be deleted.)
(The lines in double curly brackets ({{}}) should be replaced as it describes.)
(You can open a PR to add to or improve this template, if you find it lacking!)

(Choose one heading, or add your own.)
**Content (Artwork / Missions / Jobs)**
**Balance**
**Feature**
**Bug fix**
**Typo fix**
**CI/CD/Testing**
**Refactor**
**Documentation**

This PR addresses the bug/feature described in issue #{{insert number}}

## Summary
{{Describe and explain your changes. Include links to related issues.}}

## Screenshots
{{Include before and after screenshots demonstrating your changes, if applicable.}}

## Usage examples
{{If your changes affect how game data can be defined, provide examples demonstrating the changes here.}}

## Testing Done
{{Describe how you tested these changes. Ensure that new issues aren't introduced.}}
{{If this is a new feature, have you added any automated tests using the unit or integration testing framework?}}

## Save File
This save file can be used to test these changes:
{{Attach a save file that allows people to easily test your added mission content or see your new in-game art.}}

## Artwork Checklist
(If any artwork was added or changed by this PR, the following must be provided.)
 - [ ] I updated the copyright attributions, or decline to claim copyright of any assets produced or modified.
 - [ ] Include the '@2x' version of any added images alongside the regular image.
 - [ ] Please upload a zipped file with the necessary image, blend, and texture assets to the main body of your pull request.

## Wiki Update
(If this PR adds a new feature or modifies a feature that should be documented in the [GitHub wiki](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki), open a PR to the [wiki repository](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky-wiki) and provide a link.)

## Performance Impact
{{If this PR changed code, describe any performance impact (positive or negative). "N/A" if no performance-critical code is changed.}}
